Where all the external packages which we download, are stored, in which directory?

Why we define enviornment variable in $PATH variable, and how we can run command from current directory?

What is file descriptor?, for IN, OUT, and ERROR?

By default file descriptor is connected to which STDIN and STDOUT, and how redirection is useful in redirecting STDIN and STDOUT.

Difference between redirection and pipes ?

Please explain difference between below examples:
ls m.txt > m.txt (m.txt present)
ls m.txt 2> m.txt 
ls m.txt 2>& 1 m.txt
ls etc > m.txt (etc not present)
ls etc 2> m.txt
ls etc 2>& 1 m.txt
ls etc > m.txt 2>&1 

WHich directory is used to access device files, and what is used to discard command output?

what is the alternative of thing1 | thing2

When the shell is closed, where the history of command is stored(i.e in wbhich directory), and untill the shell is not closed where the commands are stored.

History command will show command from .bash_history but not from memory?(TRUE or FALSE)

How to execute command from history depending on number and some text?

what is used to switch from input to command and from command to input

Suppose you want to add a new line in a text with input mode, what is shortcut?

How to write a file with a new name?

How to delete the current line and paste thew current line?

In input mode you are not able to select text with arrow keys, so what is the shortcut to select with cut and paste?

How to undo command with as often as necessary?

How to undo the undo ?

How to go the first line and last of the document?

How to search some text in a file (both forward and backward)

How to go to the starting position of current line and ending position

How to add the output of some command to a file

How to replace all occurance of some text with new one.

What is interactive shell and noninteractive shell.

When a user logs in, an environment is created for that user automatically. This happens based on four different files, what are these files?

When is etc/profile , etc/bashrc, ~/.bash_profile, ~/.basrc are called and executed.

How to specify log in message to the user when they log in , and message before log in?

How to find document of any command and configuration files?, if nothing found what is used to update its DB, what is the alternative of that command?

If during mandb -k you get lot of info, how to filter the info depending on main 3 sections on man command,what is alternative -k for short description in man?

Directory where the whole file system of linux starts ?

where the system executable program files are stored, and where the user defined executable programs are stored

Which directory is used to boot the kernel

Which is directory is used to mount physical devices like hardisk, and which directory is used to mount cdrom, usb

Which directory stores the configuration of executable programs

You can have multiple terminals open on a console, but you cannothave multiple consoles open in one terminal(TRUE OR FALSE).

Where are mostly the program files binaries that are needed during boot are stored, program files/commands required by sysadmin related to boot, program files executables which are not required during boot, but helps the users in using software, and program files where local users installed packages.

Where the independent unbundled packages are stored.

What is the directory where all kernel related process and all process ID PID are stored, Each directory contains information about one process, including: /proc/PID/cmdline, the command that originally started the process.

What is the home directory for local users, and what is for root

What is the use of /run, /srv and /sys

what is the directory where the variable logs, data are stored

IS /usr read-only

which command is used to get the mountable devices and drives informmation, and which command is used to get the relation between the different mounts

which command is used to get the available disk space on different mount

What are three widcard with use cases

Difference between relative file name and absolute file name

If the current directory is set to /home/lisa, you could also use cp file1 ../lara.(please explain)

How to list hidden file name, sort based on date modification in ascending, and to recursive directives.
    
How to copy directory and subdirectory with cp, and what to use if you want to copy permission and exact same thing




















What is used to monitor live sessions login and security in linux

Which command is used to switch between various terminals

What are virtual terminals and where you can find this in root directory?

Use of W command

What are pseudo terminals and how we can information about it and how to find how many users are logged in?

Which process is first started when linux boot ups and which process has to make sure that all process has to be stopped before reboot

What is the command to reboot with systemctl

What is the command if reboot, halt, poweroff command didn't work, than how to reset the linux OS

How to trouble shoot if ssh is not working

If you have confiured ssh on different port than how to ssh into that machine

What is the alternative way to login through ssh

Can we login to localhost through ssh, and which terminal is opened, psudo or virtual

How to use ssh in verbose 

How SSH makes secured connection between client and remote server

How to use SSH to initiate graphical enviornment, and how to appy it with default system wide configuration

SCP will work if sshd is not running (TRUE or FALSE)

How to use SCP command, and if during scp of directory if we have specified -r , will it give error

How to mention customized port during SCP

How to enable key pair authentication in SSH

Where the public key is tored for particular user

Please explain how authentication occurs with key value pair

What security we can make on top of key pair authentication

IN which directory on server public keys are written, can that file stores multiple keys from client

if you have created private and public key on client, how you can send public to remote server, which command is used.

What is used to detach working ssh session and reattach to it

How to retach from mupltiple screen sessions

How many types of users are available, and who is the default privileged user

How to get the info of userid, groupid of any user

Which three are methods are used to run users with elevated permission

if just typed SU , whcih user logged in

How to log in with separate enviornment as well, with the help of su command

What to use if oridnary user wants to run root priviledge command

WHat is wheel user group ?

How to add any user with SUDO/SU commands

Which file is used to check if wheel group .............

How to login as root user in graphical interface

Which two files are used to store all common properties of all users?

Please tell me the format which was stored in etc/passwd

How to protect user, so that no intruder can login into their shell or home directory, and how to specify message to intruder if they try to login

what type of info is stored in etc/shadow file

Can we add and delete directlry by editing etc/passwd and etc/shadow

How to delete user with userdel including whole enviornment

WHich command is used to edit etc/passwd and etc/shadow

How to add user with homedirectory, userid, groups, username

What is the use o skeleton directory and where its is located


































