Container Image Maintainer
Orchestration with Docker-Compose
Deployment with Docker-Machine
Clustering with Docker Swarm
Clustering with AWS ECS
App migrations to containers
Production Container Deployments
Jenkins Docker CI/CD

Jenkins, DSL Deployment as code
Jenkins full CI/CD configuration
Gitlab, Github, Bitbucket mgmt
Git Administration, and Git flow

Deployment of Docker containers for development
Deployment of Swarm Cluster for Jenkins build tooling
Jenkins deployment and pipeline DSL job setup and configuration
Automated deployments of full application stack using Jenkins/Docker
Manage and maintain RHEL 6 / CentOS 7 servers that run various DevOps systems

Architecture installation and configuration
Adminstration of services such as Jira, FreeIPA, Docker clustering.
Python scripting, programming
Developed Tornado/Django based API for the backend platforms
Jenkins, job setup, maintenance used for build/test/compile/package/deploy pipeline

Jenkins implementation and configuration resulting in full CI/CD to integration environment on commit
Apache and Nginx webserver Administration

Executed continuous improvement of project builds with custom Maven plugins and Atlassian tool set.
Setup the Jenkins server with complete Maven and vSphere build jobs providing a continuous, automated scheduled QA build environment based on multiple SVN repositories for VMware open virtualization format (ovf) deployments.

SUMMARY :

Skilled DevOPs engineer with AWS and Microsoft Python certified having 3 years of experience in implementing CI-CD pipeline and scripting.As DevOps engineer, set up and managed AWS services, Docker, automate deployment process using Jenkins, Bitbucket and IBM Urban Code Deploy. Worked closely with clients to slash release time and automate the process using single commit.

AWS :

Proficient in AWS services like VPC, EC2, S3, ELB, AutoScalingGroups(ASG), EBS, RDS, IAM, CloudFormation, Route 53, CloudWatch, CloudFront, CloudTrail.
Created NAT gateways and instances to allow communication from the private instances to the internet through bastion hosts.
Python script in Lambda for deployment of Node JS application to IBM IHS server in EC2 server
Orchestration using Ansible
Experience in branching, tagging, and maintaining the version using SCM tools like GIT/Bitbucket
Worked on continous integration process with Jenkins and Ansible
Created S3 buckets and also managing policies for S3 for backup solutions
Cloud watch alerts and using them in Autoscaling configurations
Automated packaging and deployment using Ansible
Use API Gateway integration for redirect website request 
EC2 backup using snapshots and attaching the volume to ec2
Troubleshoot CI and automated deployment and managemnt using Jenkins, Ansible, Maven, Docker
Responsible for Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery process implementation using Jenkins along with Python and Shell scripts to automate routine jobs.
Implemented Continuous Integration using Jenkins and GIT from scratch.
Created topics in SNS to send notifications to subscribers as per the requirement.
Implemented Ansible to manage all existing servers and automate the build/configuration of new servers.
Involved in setting up JIRA as defect tracking system and configured various workflows, customizations and plug-ins for the JIRA bug/issue tracker.
Developed Cloud Formation scripts to build on demand EC2 instance formation.
Utilized AWS CLI to automate backups of ephemeral data-stores to S3 buckets and EBS.
Created nightly AMIs for mission critical production servers as backups.
Maintained edge location to cache data with CDN using Cloud Front to deliver data with less latency.
Worked on CI/CD tool Jenkins to automate the build process from version control tool into testing and production environment.
Managed build results in Jenkins and deployed using workflows.

Jenkins:

Jenkins installation
Intrgartion with bitbucket
Master slave 6 agent installation and configuration
Integration with LDAP server
Build steps : source code checout, maven , soanr, artifactory deployment
Notiffiaction and mesaaging


Linux 

Open ldap
user permission managment
Trouble shoot SYS admin issues
Configuring IBM IHS server

Docker :

Docker swarm cluster management with nodes and managers
Multistage build
docker container management
App migrations to containers
Bamboo Docker CI/CD
Deployment of Docker containers for development
Deployment of Swarm Cluster for Jenkins build tooling
bamboo deployment and pipeline job setup and configuration

Executed continuous improvement of project builds with custom Maven plugins and Atlassian tool set.