SQL is a language to operate databases; it includes database creation, deletion, fetching rows, modifying rows, etc.

The standard SQL commands to interact with relational databases are CREATE, SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE and DROP. 

DDL - Data Definition Language
CREATE ALTER DROP
DML - Data Manipulation Language
SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE
DCL - Data Control Language
GRANT REVOKE

RDBMS stands for Relational Database Management System.

What is table, field(columnn header), record, column, null value, 

SQL Constraints

Constraints are the rules enforced on data columns on a table. These are used to limit the type of data that can go into a table. This ensures the accuracy and reliability of the data in the database.

NOT NULL Constraint − Ensures that a column cannot have a NULL value.

DEFAULT Constraint − Provides a default value for a column when none is specified.

UNIQUE Constraint − Ensures that all the values in a column are different.

PRIMARY Key − Uniquely identifies each row/record in a database table.

FOREIGN Key − Uniquely identifies a row/record in any another database table.

CHECK Constraint − The CHECK constraint ensures that all values in a column satisfy certain conditions.

INDEX − Used to create and retrieve data from the database very quickly.

Database Normalization

Database normalization is the process of efficiently organizing data in a database. There are two reasons of this normalization process −

Eliminating redundant data, for example, storing the same data in more than one table.

Ensuring data dependencies make sense.

Data Integrity
The following categories of data integrity exist with each RDBMS −

Entity Integrity − There are no duplicate rows in a table.

Domain Integrity − Enforces valid entries for a given column by restricting the type, the format, or the range of values.

Referential integrity − Rows cannot be deleted, which are used by other records.

User-Defined Integrity − Enforces some specific business rules that do not fall into entity, domain or referential integrity.
