Project 1 :

Jenkins full CI/CD configuration
Gitlab, Github, Bitbucket mgmt
Jenkins deployment and pipeline DSL job setup and configuration
Git Administration, and Git flow
Manage and maintain RHEL 6 / CentOS 7 servers that run various DevOps systems
Architecture installation and configuration
Adminstration of services such as Jira, FreeIPA,
Jenkins, job setup, maintenance used for build/test/compile/package/deploy pipeline
Jenkins implementation and configuration resulting in full CI/CD to integration environment on commit
Apache and Nginx webserver Administration
Executed continuous improvement of project builds with custom Maven plugins and Atlassian tool set.
Setup the Jenkins server with complete Maven and vSphere build jobs providing a continuous, automated scheduled QA build environment based on multiple SVN repositories for VMware open virtualization format (ovf) deployments.
Jenkins installation
Intrgartion with bitbucket
Master slave 6 agent installation and configuration
Integration with LDAP server
Build steps : source code checout, maven , soanr, artifactory deployment
Notiffiaction and mesaaging

Project 2:

Integration of Atlassian tools like JIRA, Bamboo, and Bitbucket with each other,
so that everything will keep on track from commits to build results. 
Solving merge conflict with DEV team, and taking care of other source code
management. 
Creation of Build plans of Java and Angular JS source code in Bamboo, compiling
it to EAR, JAR and Tar (for angular).
• Used Maven framework for compilation of Java Source code, supported DEV
team in solving dependencies issue with pom.xml.
• Used Sonar Maven plugin for getting Sonar code analysis results, also sometimes
checked Junit test option in Bamboo as per the DEV team requirement to verify
and test Junit test cases.
• Used NPM for compilation of Angular JS artifacts, which will be further converted
to .tar and deployed to WEB server in htdocs.
• Integrated Bamboo with Bitbucket, so whenever developer commits code, the
particular code will trigger and compiled it with JAR, EAR.
• Deployment plans configured in Bamboo to take artifacts and deployed to IBM
Websphere server with the help of plugins.
• Management of Central Maven Artifactory with having options of public, mavensnapshots
and maven-releases versions.
• Configured Components, Component Process, Applications, and Application
Process in IBM UCD for taking artifacts from Bamboo and deployed it to IBM
Websphere Server. 
• Environment configuration and adding Servers, Nodes, DMGR details,
application context root and map modules in IBM UCD and mapping that
application component to that server for installation.
• Various script written for file permission, attaching time stamp to artifacts, and for
creation of .tar artifacts in Shell.
• Deployed artifacts to Dev, SIT, UAT, PERF, based on release version and
branches which will be used for testing purpose. 



Container Image Maintainer
Orchestration with Docker-Compose
Deployment with Docker-Machine
Clustering with Docker Swarm
Clustering with AWS ECS
App migrations to containers
Production Container Deployments
Jenkins Docker CI/CD
Jenkins, DSL Deployment as code
Deployment of Docker containers for development
Deployment of Swarm Cluster for Jenkins build tooling
Automated deployments of full application stack using Jenkins/Docker
Architecture installation and configuration
Adminstration of services such as Jira, FreeIPA, Docker clustering.
Python scripting, programming
Developed Tornado/Django based API for the backend platforms


SUMMARY :

Skilled DevOPs engineer with AWS and Microsoft Python certified having 3 years of experience in implementing CI-CD pipeline and scripting.As DevOps engineer, set up and managed AWS services, Docker, automate deployment process using Jenkins, Bitbucket and IBM Urban Code Deploy. Worked closely with clients to slash release time and automate the process using single commit.

AWS :

Proficient in AWS services like VPC, EC2, S3, ELB, AutoScalingGroups(ASG), EBS, RDS, IAM, CloudFormation, Route 53, CloudWatch, CloudFront, CloudTrail.
Created NAT gateways and instances to allow communication from the private instances to the internet through bastion hosts.
Python script in Lambda for deployment of Node JS application to IBM IHS server in EC2 server
Orchestration using Ansible
Experience in branching, tagging, and maintaining the version using SCM tools like GIT/Bitbucket
Worked on continous integration process with Jenkins and Ansible
Created S3 buckets and also managing policies for S3 for backup solutions
Cloud watch alerts and using them in Autoscaling configurations
Automated packaging and deployment using Ansible
Use API Gateway integration for redirect website request 
EC2 backup using snapshots and attaching the volume to ec2
Troubleshoot CI and automated deployment and managemnt using Jenkins, Ansible, Maven, Docker
Responsible for Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery process implementation using Jenkins along with Python and Shell scripts to automate routine jobs.
Implemented Continuous Integration using Jenkins and GIT from scratch.
Created topics in SNS to send notifications to subscribers as per the requirement.
Implemented Ansible to manage all existing servers and automate the build/configuration of new servers.
Involved in setting up JIRA as defect tracking system and configured various workflows, customizations and plug-ins for the JIRA bug/issue tracker.
Developed Cloud Formation scripts to build on demand EC2 instance formation.
Utilized AWS CLI to automate backups of ephemeral data-stores to S3 buckets and EBS.
Created nightly AMIs for mission critical production servers as backups.
Maintained edge location to cache data with CDN using Cloud Front to deliver data with less latency.
Worked on CI/CD tool Jenkins to automate the build process from version control tool into testing and production environment.
Managed build results in Jenkins and deployed using workflows.

Jenkins:




Linux 

Open ldap
user permission managment
Trouble shoot SYS admin issues
Configuring IBM IHS server

Docker :

Docker swarm cluster management with nodes and managers
Multistage build
docker container management
App migrations to containers
Bamboo Docker CI/CD
Deployment of Docker containers for development
Deployment of Swarm Cluster for Jenkins build tooling
bamboo deployment and pipeline job setup and configuration

Executed continuous improvement of project builds with custom Maven plugins and Atlassian tool set.